.TH "chibi-scheme" "1" "" ""
.UC 4
.SH NAME
.PP
chibi-scheme \- a tiny Scheme interpreter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chibi-scheme
[-qQrRfV]
[-I
.I path
]
[-A
.I path
]
[-m
.I module
]
[-x
.I module
]
[-l
.I file
]
[-e
.I expr
]
[-p
.I expr
]
[-t
.I module.id
]
[-d
.I image-file
]
[-i
.I image-file
]
[--]
[
.I script argument ...
]
.br
.sp 0.4

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I chibi-scheme
is a sample interactive Scheme interpreter for the
.I chibi-scheme
library.  It serves as an example of how to embed
.I chibi-scheme
in applications, and can be useful on its own for writing
scripts and interactive development.

When
.I script
is given, the script will be loaded with SRFI-22 semantics,
calling the procedure
.I main
(if defined) with a single parameter as a list of the
command-line arguments beginning with the script name.  This
works as expected with shell #! semantics.

Otherwise, if no script is given and no -e or -p options
are given an interactive repl is entered, reading, evaluating,
then printing expressions until EOF is reached.  The repl
provided is very minimal - if you want readline
completion you may want to wrap it with the
.I rlwrap(1)
program.  Signals aren't caught either - to enable handling keyboard
interrupts you can use the (chibi process) module.  For a more
sophisticated REPL with readline support, signal handling, module
management and smarter read/write you may want to use the (chibi repl)
module.  This can be launched automatically with:
.I chibi-scheme -R
\[char46]

For convenience the default language is the
(scheme small) module, which includes every library in the R7RS
small standard, and transitively some other dependencies.  All of this
together is actually quite large, so for a more minimal startup
language you'll want to use the
.I -x module
option described below.
To get a mostly R5RS-compatible language, use
.I chibi-scheme -xscheme.r5rs
or to get just the core language used for bootstrapping, use
.I chibi-scheme -xchibi
or its shortcut
.I chibi-scheme -q
\[char46]

.SH OPTIONS

Space is optional between options and their arguments.  Options
without arguments may not be chained together.

To reduce the need for shell escapes, options with module arguments
(
.I -m
,
.I -x
and
.I -R
) are written in a dot notation, so that the module
.I (foo bar)
is written as
.I foo.bar
\[char46]

.TP 5
.BI -V
Prints the version information and exits.
.TP
.BI -q
"Quick" load, shortcut for
.I chibi-scheme -xchibi
This is a slightly different language from (scheme base),
which may load faster, and is guaranteed not to load any
additional shared libraries.
.TP
.BI -Q
Extra "quick" load, shortcut for
.I chibi-scheme -xchibi.primitive
The resulting environment will only contain the core syntactic
forms and primitives coded in C.  This is very fast and guaranteed
not to load any external files, but is also very limited.
.TP
.BI -r [main]
Run the "main" procedure when the script finishes loading as in SRFI-22.
.TP
.BI -R [module]
Loads the given module and runs the "main" procedure it defines (which
need not be exported) with a single argument of the list of command-line
arguments as in SRFI-22.  The name "main" can be overridden with the -r
option.
.I [module]
may be omitted, in which case it default to chibi.repl.  Thus
.I chibi-scheme -R
is the recommended means to obtain the advanced REPL.
.TP
.BI -s
Strict mode, escalating warnings to fatal errors.
.TP
.BI -f
Change the reader to case-fold symbols as in R5RS.
.TP
.BI -h size[/max_size]
Specifies the initial size of the heap, in bytes,
optionally followed by the maximum size the heap can
grow to.
.I size
can be any integer value, optionally suffixed by
"K", for kilobytes, "M" for megabytes, or "G" for gigabytes.
.I -h
must be specified before any options which load or
evaluate Scheme code.
.TP
.BI -I path
Inserts
.I path
on front of the load path list.  
.TP
.BI -A path
Appends
.I path
to the load path list.  
.TP
.BI -m module
.TP
.BI -x module
Imports
.I module
as though "(import
.I module
)" were evaluated.
If the
.BI -x
version is used, then
.I module
replaces the current environment instead of being added to it.
.TP
.BI -l file
Loads the Scheme source from the file
.I file
searched for in the default load path.
.TP
.BI -e expr
Evaluates the Scheme expression
.I expr.
.TP
.BI -p expr
Evaluates the Scheme expression
.I expr
then prints the result to stdout.
.TP
.BI -t module.id
Enables tracing for the given identifier
.I id
in the module
.I module.
.TP
.BI -d image-file
Dumps the current Scheme heap to
.I image-file
and exits.  This feature is still experimental.
.TP
.BI -i image-file
Loads the Scheme heap from
.I image-file
instead of compiling the init file on the fly.
This feature is still experimental.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CHIBI_MODULE_PATH
A colon separated list of directories to search for module
files, inserted before the system default load paths.  chibi-scheme
searchs for modules in directories in the following order:

.TP
          directories included with the -I path option
.TP
          directories included from CHIBI_MODULE_PATH
.TP
          system directories 
.TP
          directories included with -A path option

If CHIBI_MODULE_PATH is unset, the directoriese "./lib", and "." are
search in order.

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Alex Shinn (alexshinn @ gmail . com)

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
More detailed information can be found in the manuale included in
doc/chibi.scrbl included in the distribution.

The chibi-scheme home-page:
.br
https://github.com/ashinn/chibi-scheme/
